## Azure container Registry
- A private Docker registry service based on OS Docker Registry 2.0
- To store and manage your private docker image
- Usecases: Pull images from registry and deploy to various deployment targets like:
  - scalable orchestration systems: Kubernetes and Docker Swam
  - Azure services: AKS, App Service, Batch, Service Fabric, and others.
- Configure ACR tasks to automate your rebuilding images. Create multi-step tasks to automate building, testing, and patching multiple container images in parallel in the cloud.

### Azure container register service tiers

- Basic: Same pgm capabilities(AZ active direcive, image handling, weehook). Appropraite for lower usage and learning
- Standard: Basics + Increased storage and throughput. Most production scenario
- Premium: Standard + Increased storage, concurrent operations, high volumn scenarios, Geo replication for managing single registry across multiple region.

### Supported images and artifacts
- Windows and Linux images
- Docker container images 
- Stored related content formats liek [Helm chart]([https://link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-helm-repos)) and images built to the Open Container Initiative (OCI)


### Automated image build task:Azure container register task
- [Azure container register task]([https://link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-tasks-overview)) to streamline building, testing, pushing and deploying images in Azure. 
- Configure build task to do patchs like OS upgrades, and trigger build image if new source code committed.

### Storage capabilities
- **Encryption-at-rest:** All images are encrypted at rest before storing in ACR, and decrypt on the fly while pulling images.
- **Geo-redundant storage:** Images are automatically replicated to multiple geographical distance to avoid image in the event of a regional storage failure.
- **Geo-replication:** Guards lossing access to registry. network-close image storage for faster pull and push images.
- **Image limit: Azure container registries image storage limit is 5 TB**   
  
#### Task scenarios
- **Quick task** For a quick docker build and docker push without installing a local Docker Engine.
- **Automatic triggered task** 
    - Trigger on source code update
    - Trigger on base image update
    - Trigger on a schedule    
- **Multi-step task**- Extend the single image build-and-push capability of ACR Tasks with multi-step, multi-container-based workflows. (e.g)
  
Build a web application image

Run the web application container

Build a web application test image

Run the web application test container, which performs tests against the running application container

If the tests pass, build a Helm chart archive package

Perform a helm upgrade using the new Helm chart archive package 

### Exploring Doocker file.
Images are defined: 
1. Base or parent image we use to create new image
2. Commands to update the OS and installing additional softwares
3. build artifacts (developed application)
4. services to expose, such as storage and network config
5. Command to run when container is launched.

[Dockerfile references]([https://link](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#usage))
