# Azure Container Instances (ACI)
- Fastest and simplest way to deploy container in AZ without VM or higher-level service.
- **Benefits**  
  1. **Fast startup**
  2. **Container access** expose container group over internet and can be accessed by IP and Fully qualified domain name(FQDN)
  3. **Customer size** Specifying exact no of core and storage
  4. **Persistance storage** Mount Azure Files shares directly to a container to retrieve and persist state
  5. **Hypervisor-level security** Isolate your application like VM
  6. **Linux and Windows:** Same API to schedule Linux and Windows container.
  7. **Customer data:** Min customer data to run the container group as per expectation.

 > Use AKS for  full container orchestration, including service discovery across multiple containers, automatic scaling, and coordinated application upgrades.

## Run containerized tasks with restart policies
- Restart policies are useful to stop the containers once their process have completed. 
- Types
  - **Always(default)** containers in the containers group are always restarted
  - **Never** Never restarted. Runs atmost once.
  - **Onfailure** - Restarted only on failure. Runs atmost once      

When a container stops whose restart policy is **Never** or **Onfailure** the container status is set to **Terminated.**

## Set env variable in container instances
- Its similar to the --env command-line argument in Docker.
- Supports passing secret values 
- Specify the variables in "" (e.g))  `--environment-variables "NumWords=5" "MinLength="8""`

## Secure values
- Secure values aren't visible in the container properties, Azure portal or Azure cli
- Their values are accessible only within the container.
-  

## Specifying the restart policy and passing env variables

specify while creating the container instance
```
az container create \
    --resource-group myResourceGroup \
    --name mycontainer \
    --image mycontainerimage \
    --restart-policy OnFailure
    --environment-variables 'NumWords'='5' 'MinLength'='8'
```
