# Exploring Azure functions
**What is AZ functions?**
  - **AZ functions are platform as service** similar to AZ Webapp.
  - Lets you to **develop serverless applications** in AZ without woryying about the infrastructure.
  - Azure Functions supports triggers, which are ways to start execution of your code, and bindings, which are ways to simplify coding for input  and output data
- Trigger causes the function to run, and it can run on a timer, HTTP call, run on some events happens on
  evenhub, cosmos db, queue storage, blob storage.
**Usage**:
  -  AZ functions are ideally suitable for short-lived - start, do work, stop. Consumption plan, the default timeout is 5 minutes
  -  Consider AZ Functions for image or order processing, schedular task, file mainteance
  -  Provides template to get started with key scenarios
- **Plan type:** Consumption plan, Premium plan and App service plan.


# Azure Function vs Azure Logic Apps
|  | AZ Function| AZ Logic Apps| AZ WebJobs|
|---|---|---|---|
|What?|Serverless compute service. Build on WebJobs SDK | Serverless workflows| Serverless compute service|
|Development|Code-first|Design first(declarative) development model||
|Connectivity|Built in binding types, write code for custom binding|Build in connectors for B2B scenarios, build custom connectors|
|Action| Each activity is a function| Large collection of ready made action|
|Monitoring|Azure Insight|AZ portal, AZ monitor logs|
|Management|REST API, VS|REST API, VS, AZ portal, Powershell |
|Ex context|Runs Local or Cloud|Runs only in Cloud|
|Serverless app model with automatic scaling|Yes|| No|
|Develop and Test in browser|Yes||No|
|Pay-per-use pricing|Yes||No|
|Integration with Logic Apps|Yes||No|
|Trigger events|Timer| **Except HTTP/Webhooks, and Event Grid others are same + File System**
||Azure Storage queues and blobs
||Azure Service Bus queues and topics
||Azure Cosmos DB
||Azure Event Hubs
||**HTTP/WebHook (GitHubSlack)**
||Azure Event Grid
 
## Comparing AZ functions hosting options.
- **You must choose a hosting plan**
- **Types:** Consumption plan, Functions Premium plan, and App service (Dedicated) plan
- Other options: 
  - **App Service Environment (ASE)** Its an App service feature provides secure isolated environment for running apps at high scale.
  - **Kubernetes** Isolated environment, running on top of K7 platform
- Hosting plan dictates following 
  - The function apps scaling
  - Resources available to each function app instance 
  - Support for advances functionality like AZ Virtual network connectivity.

## Plan benefits
1. **Consumption plan:** (Default) dynamic scaling depending on incoming events. Pay only for compute resource when the function runs. `Functions app are activated automatically`. Predictive scaling and cost.
2. **Functions Premium plan** automatic scaling with prewarm work to reduce the uptime. Run on more powerful instance and connect to Virtual network.
3. **App service plan:** Functions run in App service plan. Ideal for long running scenarios where Durable functions can't be used. **Always On** `should be enabled to activate the idle function using HTTP-trigger`

## Storage account requirment
- Function apps requires storage account.which supports Azure Blob, Queue, Files, and Table storage. 
- Storage account required for function apps operations such as managing trigger and logging function executions.
- Filter out storage account with only Blob storage, and general purpose storage.

## Scale AZ Functions
- In Consumption plan and Premium plans AZ Functions scales CPU and memory resources by adding additional function host instance. Function Apps that share the Consumption plan scale independently.
- Each instance of the Function hosts in consumption plan is limitated to 1 CPU and 1.5 GB memory
- **All functions in the function app shares the resource** within a instance and scale at the same time.

- Function code files are stored on Azure Files shares on the function's main storage account. When you delete the main storage account of the function app, the function code files are deleted and cannot be recovered.

## Runtime scaling
- uses `Scalar controller` to monitor the rate of event and scale up and down  
-  After your function app has been idle for a number of minutes, the platform may scale the number of instances on which your app runs down to zero. The next request has the added latency of scaling from zero to one. This latency is referred to as a **cold start.**

## Scaling Behaviours 
- Scale differently based on the trigger and language selected.
- A single function apps can have maximum 200 hosting instances, and there are no limitations on the concurrent execution of requests
- New intance rate: 1/secs for HTTP trigger, and 30/secs for non HTTP triggers.
### Limit scale out
- Consumption plan functions scale out to many as 200 instances and premium 100 instances
- At app level modify the `functionAppScaleLimit` value between 1 and the app maximum
- In App service plan scale out is possible by adding more VM instances. Autoscale will be slower than the elastic scale of the Premium plan.