# Developing Azure Functions
Two parts of functions are: 
1. code written in any language
2. config files, functions.json

>Note: functions.json are generated automatically for compiled languages, and for scripting languages you have to generate yourself.

A function defines following: 
A trigger (1 per function)
bindings and other configuration settings.
The runtime uses this config files to determine the events to monitor and how to pass the data in to the function and return the data from the function.

## Sample function
```json
{
    "disabled":false,
    "bindings":[
        // ... bindings here
        {
            "type": "bindingType",
            "direction": "in",
            "name": "myParamName",
            // ... more depending on binding
        }
    ]
}
/*
type: Name of binding. For example, queueTrigger.
direction: dentoes in-receiving data out-sending data out from the function
name: bound data in the function */
```
## Function App
- A function app provides the execution context within AZ to run the functions
- All functions in function app shares the pricing plan, deployment method and runtime version
>Note: In Functions 2.x all functions in a function app must be authored in the same language. In previous versions of the Azure Functions runtime, this wasn't required.

## Folder structure

Sample Java Function App structure.
```
FunctionsProject
 | - src
 | | - main
 | | | - java
 | | | | - FunctionApp
 | | | | | - MyFirstFunction.java
 | | | | | - MySecondFunction.java
 | - target
 | | - azure-functions
 | | | - FunctionApp
 | | | | - FunctionApp.jar
 | | | | - host.json
 | | | | - MyFirstFunction
 | | | | | - function.json
 | | | | - MySecondFunction
 | | | | | - function.json
 | | | | - bin
 | | | | - lib
 | - pom.xml
```
Reference: [Running AZ function local]([https://link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-develop-local))

### Creating triggers and binding
**Trigger:**
- A trigger defines how a function is invoked. 
- It causes the function to run. 
- A function can have 1 trigger max. 
- Triggers have associated data which is often provided as the payload of the function
**Binding**
- Binding to a function is a way of declaratively connecting external resources to the function
- A function can have more than one mix of input and output binding
- Data from binding is provided to the function as parameters.
- Its optional

### Trigger and binding definition in diff lanaguages
- c# decorating methods and params with C# attributes
- Java decorating methods and params with java annotations
- Python/Scripts updating function.json schema.
- Portal provides a UI for editing function.json
- For dynamical typed languages like javascript use the `dataType` property in the function.json.(e.g) For reading HTTP request in binary format, set dataType as `binary`. other options Stream and String

```json
{
    "dataType": "binary",
    "type": "httpTrigger",
    "name": "req",
    "direction": "in"
}
```
### Binding direction
Trigger the direction is always `in` 
Bindings use`in` and `out`
`inout`. Advanced editor available in the Portal->Integration tab 

### Azure function trigger and binding example
- Create a row in Azure table storage(binding-output) whenever there is a message appears in AZ Queue storage(trigger-input).

```json
// The 1st name property is the function parameter that receives the queue message content  
//the 2nd name property in the 2nd binding specifies how the function provides the new table row, in this case by using the function return value.
{
  "bindings": [
    {
      "type": "queueTrigger",
      "direction": "in",
      "name": "order",
      "queueName": "myqueue-items",
      "connection": "MY_STORAGE_ACCT_APP_SETTING"
    },
    {
      "type": "table",
      "direction": "out",
      "name": "$return",
      "tableName": "outTable",
      "connection": "MY_TABLE_STORAGE_ACCT_APP_SETTING"
    }
  ]
}
```

 ### Additional resources
[Azure Cosmos DB trigger]([https://link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-cosmosdb-v2))

### Connect function to Azure services
- A functions trigger might include a `connection` property. It might refer to a connection string and you cannot set the connection string directly in function.json
- You would set the connection string to the connection environment name
-  