# Azure App Service

1. Azure App Service is an HTTP-based service for hosting web applications, REST APIs, and mobile back ends. 
2. language, be it .NET, .NET Core, Java, Ruby, Node.js, PHP, or Python. 
3. Supports application run in Windows and Linux-based environments.
4. This is considered Infrastructure as a Service, not Platform as a Service.

## Features
- Auto scale support to scale up/down the no of the machine instances, and the underlining resources.
- Continout integration and deployment support. Deployment slots in Stage and easy swap to production slot.
- Support to host applications in Linux.
- App service plans to define set of computation resources which will be availed by all app which comes under the same App service plan.
- Capability to isolate an App from the App service plan. For  resource-intensive.scale the app independently from the other apps the existing plan. App needs resource in a different geographical region
- Support manual and auto deployment to Azure Dev Ops, Github, Bitbucket.
- Manual deployment support via Git, CLI, Zip deploy and FTP/S
- Authentication and Authorization in App Service - Build in Support, plus 3rd party authentication MS, Google, Facebook and twitter.
  - A&A module runs separately in the same sandbox as your app code. Every HTTP requests passes through it before by the app.
  - In Linux container the A&A module run in a separate container, isolate you from your application code.
  - As the modules run separately its just an configuration required in your apps no special SDKs is required.
- App Service networking features: 
  - App Service are accessible directly through the internet and can reach only internet-hosted endpoints. Support to control the inbound and outbound network traffic for your apps.
  - Multiple tenant and single tenant support 
  - How do you do background scripts in the Platform as a Service model? Deploy it as a web job attached to a web app.
## Continuous integration/deployment support
**Deployment slots**
 - Using the Azure portal, or command-line tools, you can  add deployment slots to an App Service web app. Staging deployment slot and easy swap to production deployment slot 
 - Note deployment slot available only in standard and premium tiers

## App Service on Linux
- Support for hosting webapss in Linux for supported app stask
- can run customer Linux containers(Web App for container)

To retrieve supported application stack
> `az webapp list-runtimes --linux`

**Limitations: **
- Can't mixup windows and Linux apps in the same App service plan.
- Historically mixing of windows and Linux apps in same resurce group aren't supported, but resource created from Jan 2021 are supported

## Azure App Service plans
- Defines a set of compute resources for a web app to run.
- One or more apps can be configured to run on the same App service plan
- Can run Azure function also in the App service plan.
- App running and scaling depends on the tiers. No scale out on free and shared tier
- Azure compute unit(ACU) dedicated compute resources used to run applications deployed in the App Service Plan.
- Difference between Basic and Shared plan Manual scaling
- Difference between basic and standars, premium planning are auto scaling, deployment slot, traffic manager and double the size memory, cpu
- Isolated is a single tenant system, no shared resources with other customers.
- No of App deployment to a single App Service plan is based on the limit of the App service plan choosen. 
  which is  10 for Free, 100 for shared, and unlimited for basic and up

### Defining an App service plan
Whatever apps you put into this App Service plan run on these compute resources as defined by your App Service plan. Each App Service plan defines:

- Region (West US, East US, etc.)
- Number of VM instances
- Size of VM instances (Small, Medium, Large)
- Pricing tier (Free, Shared, Basic, Standard, Premium, PremiumV2, PremiumV3, Isolated)

The pricing tier of an App service plan decides the App service feature you can avail.
**Shared compute:** Allocate CPU quota to each app that runs on the shared resources.
**Dedicated compute:** The Basic, Standard, Premium, PremiumV2, and PremiumV3 tiers run apps on dedicated Azure VMs. Only apps in the same App Service plan share the same compute resources.The higher the tier, the more VM instances are available to you for scale-out.
**Isolated:**  dedicated Azure VMs on dedicated Azure Virtual Networks. Provdies netword isolation on top of compute isolation.
**Consumption:** This tier is only available to function apps. It scales the functions dynamically depending on workload.

## App run and scale
- It depends on the tier and no scale out in free and shared tier
- Apps running in App service plan will share the same VM instances, even the deployment slots, diagnostic logs, performance backups, or run webjobs they also use the same CPU cycles and memory on these VM instances.
 
## Authentication and authorization in App Service
**Build in Authentication:** 
1. The built-in authentication feature for App Service and Azure Functions can save you time and effort by providing out-of-the-box authentication with federated identity providers.
2. It’s built directly into the platform and doesn’t require any particular language, SDK, security expertise, or even any code to utilize.

## Identity providers
Microsoft Identity Platform /.auth/login/aad App Service Microsoft Identity Platform login

Facebook /.auth/login/facebook App Service Facebook login

Google /.auth/login/google App Service Google login

Twitter /.auth/login/twitter App Service Twitter login

 ## Networking features
- Hybrid Connections are an outbound network feature. It can be used to control outbound network traffic
Multitenant App service networking features

Feature that solve problems for call from Apps
|Inbound features|Outbound features|
|---|---|
|App-assigned address|Hybrid Connections|
|Access restrictions|Gateway-required VNet integration|
|Service endpoints|VNet Integration|
|Private endpoints|   |

|Inbound use case|Feature|
|---|---|
|Support IP-based SSL needs for your app|App-assigned address|
|Support unshared dedicated inbound address for your app |App-assigned address|
|Restrict access to your app from a set of well-defined addresses | Access restrictions|

Questions:
1. Which of the following programming languages are NOT supported by the Azure App Service?
Compiled Windows binaries, EXE
2. Which of the following are NOT considered part of Azure App Services? VM
3. How many applications can you deploy to a single App Service plan? To the limit of the app service plan
choosen. which is 10 for Free, 100 for shared, and unlimited for Basic and up.
4. How do you do background scripts in the Platform as a Service model?
Deploy it as a web job attached to a web app.

## Code samples: 
Since the AZ-204 exam will want you to develop for App Services, here is a relevant Getting Started Github project:

https://github.com/Azure-Samples/dotnetcore-sqldb-tutorial

Other languages and samples are available in that Github repository.



